# Credit Risk for Lending Club

### Introduction
Lending Club, a peer-to-peer lending services company, is looking for an analytical process by which they can determine if a loan should or should not be given to certain individuals. Since lending is such an imbalanced classification problem, Lending Club would like to have a thorough analysis completed on their data. We have been tasked with performing resampling on the data with various methods and tools. The ultimate goal of this project is to determine if any of these are suggested to Lending Club to determine if granting a loan is recommended. 

### Process
It was decided that we would utilize machine learning models and imbalanced-learn and scikit-learn libraries to performed this unbalanced analysis and evaluate the models using resampling.  For this, we will use a logistic regression classifier and four different resampling techniques--Naive Random Oversampling, SMOTE Oversampling, Undersampling, and SMOTEENN (a combination resampling method). Our analysis and conclusions will be determined based on several analytical and statistical measures. The first is the Balanced Accuracy Score. A Balanced Accuracy Score simply helps us determine how many of the predictions of a model will be correct. Since this can be misleading at times, we will add the measures of Precision and Recall to our analysis.  Precision is a measure of how reliable a positive calculation is. Recall, or Sensitivity, is a measure of how many in a sample are actually positive.

## Results
Three of the four tests resulted in Balanced Accuracy Scores of 64.4 to 66.4--Naive Random Oversampling, SMOTE Oversampling, and SMOTEENN. Undersampling had the lowest score of 53.4, making it just a little better than chance at predicting results. In all of our tests, we had a low rating of precision on predicting high risk loans, each method produced a rating of 0.01. Conversely, we had the highest rating possible, 1.00, for precision of the low risk loans. These findings are not unexpected since the data was so heavily weighted toward low risk loans. The recall was more evenly balanced on most of the methods with recall on the high risk loans being the best.  The values for recall for all the tests ranged from 0.65 to 0.73.  Recall for the low risk loans was lower and the range of findings were between 0.41 and 0.67. Undersampling had the worst result of recall for low risk loans at 0.41 and SMOTE oversampling had the highest at 0.67.

## Conclusions
Of all the tests, SMOTE Oversampling had the best results. This was followed by Naive Random Oversampling, then SMOTEENN. However, none of the tests had outstanding results. All of the tests are suspect of overfitting since the precision results were so extreme. I do not recommend that any of these methods and the data be used by Lending Club to base their choice of whom to lend to. The scores do not support that any of these models would be very successful.
